1. Introduce yourself
=> Hello everyone, my name is Nam, I graduated from HCMC University of Technology and Education with a major in information technology. Currently I am working at TMA Solutions company with position QA Engineer, and I have about 1 year of experience with automation testing using robot framework for API testing, UI testing and functional testing. I am also familiar with some tools like Jira, Confluence. In previous project, I create, manage test cases and test scripts, perform functional testing following requirements, perform API testing, Web automation testing and communicate with developers on requirements and defects.

2. Describe about previous project. What did you do?
=> Previous project is a web application which manages assets, departments, employees in organizations of finance, bank, and service.
In previous project, I create, manage test cases and test scripts, perform functional testing following requirements, perform API testing and communicate with developers on requirements and defects.

3. What do you think are some advantages of automation testing?
=> There are some advantages like time-saving, the test cases with automation testing run faster than the manual testing, regression testing time is reduced, test cases can be run anytime, we can reuse test scripts for next time, improves accuracy, repetitive tests can be performed with the same accuracy.

4. What kinds of frameworks have you worked with?
=> I worked with robot framework in previous project

5. How many test cases have you automated in a day?
=> The number depends on the complexity of the test cases. Sometimes, I was able to automate only one test case for complex scenarios. With easier scenarios, I can automate more, maybe 5 or 6 test cases per day or more

6. How familiar are you with Selenium?
=> Selenium is the auto test the tool check for the web application
Selenium is used to automate tasks with the browser, or easier to understand, it helps the author to reset the browser tasks like a real person.
For example: I can program it to automatically launch the browser, open a link, input data, or get info page, upload or download data from a web page.

7. How do you write test cases?
=> Firstly, I will write manual test cases base on the user story or requirements and make sure that cover all acceptance criterias in the user story and perform all those test cases, after the user story have done I will select test cases which can automate and write test script in robot framework then I will automate those test cases (I can use boundary values and equalavence class technique to write some test cases if possible).

8. How would you select a test case for automation?
=> I will select test cases which are repetitive, data-driven tests, complex test cases, and tests that take a lot of time to do manual testing time for automation

9. How do you decide which tools to use for automation testing?

10. What types of tests would you not automate?
=> I think tests have never been performed manual testing before, important tests, user experience tests for usability (tests that require a user to respond as to how easy the app is to use), tests are only run one time, tests without predictable results. They would not automate (For automation validation, it needs to have predictable results in order to know that it pass or fail.)

11. What are the 2 main types of testing?
=> manual test and automation test
- Functional testing is a type of testing which verifies that each function of the software application works in conformance with the requirement and specification. This testing focuses on checking of user interface, APIs, database, security, and functionality of the Application Under Test.
 + Unit Testing is a type of software testing where individual units or components of a software are tested to validate that each unit of the software code performs as expected. A unit may be an individual function, method, procedure, module, or object.
 + Integration Testing is the process of testing the interface between two software units or module to determine the correctness of the interface. Integration testing is performed after all modules have been unit tested.
 + Smoke Testing is a software testing technique to verify that the important features of software are working fine. It is executed before any functional or regression tests are executed.
 + Acceptance Testing is a method of software testing where a system is tested to evaluate the compliance of the system with the business requirements and evaluate whether it is acceptable for delivery or not.
 + Usability Testing is a type of testing, that is done from an end user’s perspective to determine if the system is easily usable
 + System Testing  is a type of software testing that is performed on a complete integrated system to evaluate the compliance of the system with the corresponding requirements.
 + Regression Testing is executed to make sure that current features are working fine when some features are modified or we add new features to an application. Regression testing is performed at the end of every sprint to make sure the software is stable.
- Non-functional testing is a type of software testing to check non-functional aspects of a software application. It is designed to test the readiness of a system as per nonfunctional parameters which are never addressed by functional testing.
 + Compatibility testing
 + Compliance testing
 + Endurance testing
 + Load testing is a type of Performance Testing which determines the behavior of the application when multiple users use it at the same time. It is the response of the system measured under varying load conditions. The load testing is carried out for normal and extreme load conditions. Load testing is performed to find out the upper limit of the system or application.
 + Performance testing is a type of software testing that is carried out to test the speed (It determines whether the software product responds quickly), scalability (It determines amount of load the software product can handle at a time), stability (It determines whether the software product is stable under varying loads) and reliability (It determines whether the software product is secure or not) of the software product or application.
 + Recovery testing
 + Security testing
 + Scalability testing
 + Stress testing is a type of software testing that verifies the stability and reliability of the system. This test particularly determines the system on its robustness and error handling under extremely heavy load conditions. It even tests beyond the normal operating point and analyses how the system works under the extreme conditions. Stress testing is performed to find the behavior of the system under pressure.

12. What is Boundary Value Analysis?
=> Boundary Value Analysis (BVA) is used to check the errors at the boundaries of an input domain. It mainly focuses on testing both valid and invalid input parameters for a given range of a software component.
Equivalence Partitioning or Equivalence Class Partitioning: is input data units are divided into equivalent partitions and we can get one value from each partition for a test case, so time for testing is reduced because of small number of test cases.

13. What is the Severity and Priority of a bug?
=> Bug severity is a measure of how serious an issue is.
	+ Low: Bug won’t result in any noticeable breakdown of the system
	+ Minor: The bug effects a minor feature or effects a major feature but can solve to not cause any major inconvenience
	+ Major: The bug effects a major feature of an application
	+ Critical: The bug makes the application unusable or cause serious data loss
Bug priority refers to how urgently a bug needs to be fixed and removed from the website or app in question.
	+ Low: Bug can be fixed at a later date. Other, more serious bugs take priority
	+ Medium: Bug can be fixed in the normal process of development and testing.
	+ High: Bug must be resolved at the earliest because it affects the system adversely and it unusable until it is resolved.

14. What are the different levels of testing?

15. What is a test plan?
=> Test plan is a document describing the scope, approach, resources and schedule of intended test activities.

16. What is the difference between regression and retesting?
=> Retesting: Testers find the bug while testing the software application and assign it to the developers to fix it. Then the developers fix the bug and assign it back to the testers for verification. This continuous process is called Retesting.
Regression Testing is executed to make sure that current features are working fine when some features are modified or we add new features to an application
Regression testing is performed for passed test cases while Retesting is done only for failed test cases

17. What is a defect?

18. What would you do if you find a defect?

19. What are the different parts of a defect report?

20. What are the test cases you can create for a simple login screen with username, password, and login buttons?

21. When do you create bug report?
=> When I find difference between user story and the test result, I will create bug report.
When I find a bug, I will report the bug in Jira, bug report includes title of the bug, severity and priority, description - this is an overview of the bug and how and when it happened, test environment, precondition, steps to reproduce, actual result, expected result, and attachment document for the bug like pictures, videos or log files for developers to identify the issue faster.
I think all of them are important, but the most important part is bug title, it helps the developer to know what the bug is and easy to identify the bug to fix

22. How do you write test case for API?
=> First, I need to know which API it is. Then I will list the possible test cases for that API. Finally I will write test script to get response result and compare status code or response body to expected result from user story to know that it pass or fail.

23. What is robot framework?
=> (Robot Framework is an open-source acceptance testing and acceptance test-driven development framework. For writing test cases, it uses three test case styles: keyword-driven, behaviour-driven, and data-driven. So it really simple to understand)
Robot framework: is an open-source automation framework with a wide range of applications, it can use for API testing, web testing and database testing
- Data Driven Testing is test data is stored in table or spreadsheet format. Data driven testing allows testers to input a single test script that can execute tests for all test data from a table and expect the test output in the same table
- Keyword Driven Testing uses the keywords from libraries that is imported into the test files to describe the set of actions that is required to perform a specific step.
- In BDD, test cases are written in a natural language that even non-programmers can read.

24. What are the benefits of using the Robot Framework?
=> It is a free and open-source framework, it's easy to set up and use, and it allows to create and run test cases. Any beginner may get started with the robot framework because it is simple and does not require much programming knowledge. All reports are generated automatically as well when we run test script without any further commands

25. Scrum process
=> In previous project I join some activities like sprint planning, daily meeting, sprint review, sprint retrospective
Sprint Planning
- During sprint planning, the team discusses the high-priority work for the sprint and defines the sprint goal, describes the product goal and also answers questions from the development team about acceptance criteria. After sprint planing, QC team will break task base on the user story and estimate time for task
Daily Scrum
- The development team meets for 15 minutes (or less) every day of the sprint to inspect progress toward the sprint goal. And they answer for 3 questions: What did you do yesterday?, What do you plan to do today?, Have any blocker?
Sprint Review
- During a sprint review, the scrum team invites stakeholders to discuss what was completed during the sprint
Sprint Retrospective
- During a sprint retrospective, the scrum team discusses what start doing, keep doing, stop doing

26. Bug lifecycle
=> When tester detects a bug, its status is NEW, then tester report bug and developers agree to fix then switched to IN PROGRESS. When the bug is fixed, it will be switched to READY FOR TEST. After that, tester will check the bug again, if test fail, tester will report it again and its status will be REOPEN, else test pass its status will be DONE. In case developers don't agree that bug, its status will be NEED MORE INFORMATION. In case both tester and developer consider that it is not a bug, its status will be CLOSED.

27. What do you do if developer said that it is not a bug?
=> I will replicate again to make sure that it is a bug, if it is really a bug, I will disucuss with BA about that bug and follow BA's instructions

28. What is the most challenge in previous project?
=> I think it might not be the most challenging, when I have a difficult task I usually research on myself, if I do not find the answer, I will get help from my colleagues to find the solutions for my problem

29. What is API testing?
=> API testing is a software testing type that validates Application Programming Interfaces (APIs). The purpose of API Testing is to check the functionality, reliability, performance, and security of the programming interfaces. It mainly concentrates on the business logic layer of the software architecture.
API stands for Application Programming Interface which acts as an interface between two software applications so that two software applications can communicate with each other and performs the required actions efficiently.

30. What are the disadvantages of using the robot framework?
=> I think that debugging capability is not included, I have to use some keywords to log the result to console or log file to view the result, so it might take a long time to view the result

31. What do you understand about test setup and teardown in the context of the robot framework?
=> Test Setup will run before every test case, if the setup fails, the keywords are not executed; Test TearDown will run after every test case, it is executed regardless of the test status and also if test setup has failed.
Suite Setup will run before test suite, if it fails, all the test cases the suite contain are marked failed; Suite TearDown will run after test suite, Suite teardowns are executed regardless of the test status and even if the suite setup fails

32. What are the different types of variables in the context of the robot framework?
=> 
- Scalar variable: Contains any object, numbers, lists, dict; using $ symbol
- List variable: its value is a list or list-like; using @ symbol
- Dictionary variable: Variable containing a Python dictionary or a dictionary-like; using & symbol
- Environment variable: Robot Framework allows using environment variables in the test data using % symbol. They are limited to string values.

33. Differentiate between Robot Framework and Selenium.
=>
- Robot framework: is an open-source automation framework with a wide range of applications, it can use for API testing, web testing and database testing
- Selenium: is an open-source Web automation testing framework. It's mostly a front-end component and functionality testing tool for browsers

34. Differentiate between Robot Framework and Cucumber.
=>
- Robot framework: It is based on the Python programming language. It uses keyword-driven testing to write test cases
- Cucumber: It is based on the Ruby programming language. It is a behaviour-driven development automation tool. The specifications are written in plain text English, making them understandable to testers, developers or BA.

35. How do you write test script?
=> I use Pycharm to write test scripts and I create 4 folders for my project
- Libraries folder: where I will store custom libraries in case I going to create custom library for the application that I am testing
- Results folder: where will be used for saving the Test execution logs and results
- Resources folder: it will be used to write reusable codes. It would be mostly used for implementing Page Object Model
- Tests folder: it will be used to write my test cases

36. What is Jenkins?
=> It allows developers to continuously check in their code and also analyze the post-build actions. The testers can use to run their automation tests as soon as the new code is added or code is modified.
Jenkins freestyle projects allow users to automate simple jobs, such as running tests, creating and packaging applications, producing reports, or executing commands. (Freestyle projects are repeatable and contain both build steps and post-build actions.)

37. What is automation tetsing?
=> Automation Testing is to use special automated testing tools and frameworks to execute a test case suite to minimize human intervention and maximize quality